# Assignment 1

All assignments will be about reservoir mass balance: it is a simple and intuitive problem, relevant to all of us to an extent, and is easy to code. Be sure to use CLion instead of a text editor --- this will make it easier to compile your code and will make a huge difference once we get to Object Oriented Programming. 

## The problem
Your job is to write a code in C (structured) to simulate a system with 3 reservoirs with capacity of 100 MG each connected in series. The mass balance equation for such reservoirs will be:

**New_volume = old_volume + upstream_release + catchment_gain - evaporation - release**

All reservoirs are supposed to have a minimum environmental flow of 5 MGW.

## Inflows and evaporations
Each reservoir will have its own time series of inflows and evaporations, which should be generated by using the C's rand() function --- I know, Julie and Jared, this is not log-normal or normal, but nothing is going to flood because of flawed stats in this C training. Since rand() returns an integer, you have to use the following workaround to get it to generate a decimal number between 0 and 1: `1. * rand() / RAND_MAX`. You may find online comments saying that the rand() function's randomness sucks, which is true, but since it is short please let this one slide for now. Catchment gains and evaporations should be numbers **between 0 and 10 MGW**.

## Some finesse
Keep in mind that if the reservoir is full the release will should be the minimum environmental flow plus any extra spillage. Conversely, if the reservoir is empty or close to empty the release will be smaller than the minimum environmental flow but never negative. Also, no stored volumes higher than capacity or smaller than 0 are allowed.

## Last considerations
Be sure to add print statements that will let you see what is going on with your numbers. Also, keep everything on the main for now instead of creating functions (we will get to that). Lastly, keep in mind the good coding practices! They feel like a pain in the beginning but make a huge difference later.

Be sure to stop by or send me an e-mail if you are stuck.
